[RHACS][Docs] ROX-27678: Release notes for 4.7 (#87957)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/47-release-notes.adoc

In {product-title-short} 4.7, you can now enable machine-to-machine authentication by using the short-lived {product-title-short} Central tokens with Microsoft Entra ID, formerly known as Azure AD, as the OpenID Connect (OIDC) identity provider for your organization. 
You can now exchange ID tokens issued to your application's service principals for {product-title-short} Central access tokens, which you can then use to authenticate {product-title-short} APIs.

//ROX-26546
[id="view-the-violation-status-directly-on-the-violations-page_{context}"]
=== View the violation status directly on the Violations page

With {product-title-short} 4.7, you can now see the status of a violation directly on the *Violations* page, and determine if the violation has been resolved. This enhances automation, as the links to the alerts now show the full context when they are accessed.

//ROX-26335
[id="prioritize-cves-with-the-epss-integration_{context}"]
=== Prioritize CVEs with the EPSS integration

{product-title-short} 4.7 introduces integration with the Exploit Prediction Scoring System (EPSS), a data-driven model that estimates the likelihood of a software vulnerability being exploited. 

> In addition to the severity and Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) score, an EPSS probability score from 0%-100% is now displayed for each detected Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE). 

Author: This is correct as per IBM guidelines:
https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=measurement-numbers#ranges:~:text=8%E2%80%9380%25-,8%25%E2%80%9380%25,-For%20positive%20numbers

You can use the EPSS score to better prioritize the remediation of CVE vulnerabilities and strengthen your security strategy.

//ROX-26330
[id="gain-visibility-into-the-external-ips-in-the-network-graph_{context}"]
=== Enhanced visibility into the external IPs in the network graph

With {product-title-short} 4.7, you can now get a better insight into the external IPs behind external entities in the network graph. 
This enhancement helps you identify the specific IP addresses your deployments are communicating with and gives you better insight into the external interactions and potential risks.

> 

Reviewer: This feature was technology preview in release 4.6 and is GA in release 4.7. For more information, see xref:../operating/visualizing-external-entities.adoc#visualizing-external-entities[Visualizing external entities].

//ROX-25007
[id="enhanced-options-for-the-roxctl-netpol-generate-command_{context}"]
=== Enhanced options for the roxctl netpol generate command

{product-title-short} 4.7 introduces improved options for the `roxctl netpol generate` command. You can now specify DNS ports by using names as well as numbers. If you do not specify a port, port `53` is used automatically. 

> However, you can change this value by using the `--dnsport` flag. For example, you can now specify the port when a service has a defined name by using the `--dnsport dns`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change the port value by using the `--dnsport` flag. For example, you can now specify the port when a service has a defined name by using the `--dnsport dns` flag. 
```

If you are using {osp} with the default DNS setting, you can change the default port by using the `--dnsport` flag, as {osp}’s DNS pod listens on port `5353`.

For more information, see xref:../cli/command-reference/roxctl-netpol.adoc#roxctl-netpol-generate_roxctl-netpol[roxctl netpol generate].

//ROX-24589
//tech preview
[id="integrate-the-vulnerability-insights-into-the-red-hat-developer-hub_{context}"]
=== Integrate the vulnerability insights into the Red{nbsp}Hat Developer Hub

:FeatureName: Integration of vulnerability insights into the Red{nbsp}Hat Developer Hub
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

In {product-title-short} 4.7, you can now bring vulnerability insights directly into the Red{nbsp}Hat Developer Hub and other platforms based on the upstream Backstage project by using the Backstage Plugin.

> You can incorporate the {product-title-short} plugin into your developer environment and review key vulnerabilities for your applications within the platform and take the necessary remediation actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can incorporate the {product-title-short} plugin into your developer environment and review key vulnerabilities for your applications within the platform. This provides information that you need before you can take the necessary remediation actions.
```
Suggesting a slight rewrite, because the way that it is written implies that you can use the plugin to remediate, which I don't think is true.

//ROX-24052
//tech preview
[id="generate-sboms-from-the-scanned-container-images_{context}"]
=== Generate SBOMs from the scanned container images

:FeatureName: Generation of SBOMs from the scanned container images
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

> With {product-title-short} 4.7, you can now generate Software Bill of Materials (SBOMs) from the scanned container images. These SBOMs give you a detailed overview of all software components, dependencies and libraries within your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With {product-title-short} 4.7, you can now generate a Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) from scanned container images. These SBOMs give you a detailed overview of all software components, dependencies, and libraries within your application.
```

> {product-title-short} creates SBOMs of the Analyzed type and complies with the Software Package Data Exchange (SPDX) 2.3 specification.

Reviewer 2: Considering adding the link for the SPDX 2.3 specification: https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3/

Author: As per the doc guidelines we are not allowed to add the github links in the docs:
https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#:~:text=You%20cannot%20link%20to%20a%20repository%20that%20is%20hosted%20on%20www.github.com.%20An%20exception%20to%20this%20rule%20is%20when%20autogenerated%20API%20reference%20content%20contains%20a%20link%20to%20www.github.com.

> {product-title-short} creates SBOMs of the Analyzed type and complies with the Software Package Data Exchange (SPDX) 2.3 specification.

Reviewer 2: Could we add to this section that generating SBOMS from images analyzed via secured clusters (using the delegated scanning feature) is NOT supported (yet), but will be in a future release.

Author: checking with the PM

Reviewer 3: Approved, please add as proposed by David.

For more information about the SBOMs of the Analyzed type, see
link:https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2023-04/sbom-types-document-508c.pdf[Types of SBOM Documents] (America's Cyber Defense Agency documentation).

> 

Reviewer: For information about using {product-title-short} to generate SBOMs, see xref:../operating/manage-vulnerabilities/scanner-generate-sbom.adoc#scanner-generate-sbom[Generating SBOMs from scanned images].

(this link won't work until docs are merged)

//ROX-17535
[id="automatic-certificate-rotation-by-using-the-mtls-architecture_{context}"]

> === Automatic certificate rotation by using the mTLS architecture

Reviewer: This needs a little editing but let me get back to you on it.

Author: edited the title

> === Automatic certificate rotation by using the mTLS architecture

Reviewer 4: Should be something like "Automatic certificate rotation for Secured Clusters"

> {product-title-short} 4.7 introduces certificate-based architecture (mTLS) for communication between your secured cluster components and Central. 

Reviewer 4: I think this is misleading, mTLS was always used for communication between Secured Clusters and Central.

What is new is that the Secured Cluster certificates are automatically rotated. Previously, new credentials had to be generated on Central side, and manually applied to each Secured Cluster.

Reviewer 5: I was just about to point this out too :)  mTLS has always been there, now we have ability to auto-rotate the certs

This feature enables the automatic rotation of certificates. {product-title-short} components use these certificates on your secured clusters and require no user interaction.

> Your secured cluster continues to function even if the initBundle and its bootstrap credentials are revoked, as these certificates are separate from the bootstrap credentials in the initBundle.

Reviewer 4: This is correct, with one caveat - if an init bundle is revoked, and then the Secured Cluster is rolled back to 4.6 or older, the cluster won't be able to connect anymore. But I'm not sure if this should be mentioned in the release notes - could be mentioned in the docs though.

Author: checking with the PM

Reviewer 5: I would agree. The release notes need not mention the functionality itself. This can go under https://docs.openshift.com/acs/4.6/configuration/reissue-internal-certificates.html 
You could potentially keep sentence on line 143 as is and add "For more details, review docs" and add a link to the config doc section where you are covering cert autorotation, there you can cover the above revert scenario mentioned by Vlad.

//ROX-14616
[id="protect-and-run-secured-clusters-on-red-openshift-on-ibm-cloud_{context}"]
=== Protect and run secured clusters on Red{nbsp}OpenShift on IBM Cloud

In {product-title-short} 4.7, you can now protect {product-roibm} and run secured clusters on {product-roibm}.

//ROX-13542
[id="use-the-short-lived-oidc-credentials-from-microsoft-azure_{context}"]
=== Use the short-lived OIDC credentials from Microsoft Azure

With {product-title-short} 4.7, you can now use short-lived OpenID Connect (OIDC) credentials. The Microsoft Azure Identity Provider provides these credentials, and you can use these credentials to access the services in Microsoft Azure, such as the Azure Container Registry and Azure Sentinel.

This feature builds on the {product-title-short} 4.4 release, which introduced the ability to use short-lived OIDC credentials from Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Google Cloud Platform (GCP) cloud providers to authenticate to the services hosted on these platforms.

> 

Reviewer: For more information, see *need to add link to docs*

Author: added the link

[id="certifications_{context}"]
== Certifications

{product-title-managed} is certified according to the following global standards for security, compliance, and data protection:

* ISO/IEC 27001:2022
* ISO/IEC 27017:2015
* ISO/IEC 27018:2019
* PCI DSS 4.0
* SOC 2 Type 2
* SOC 2 Type 3

[id="notable-technical-changes_{context}"]

> == Notable technical changes

Reviewer 6: I think we need another entry in this section about changes to the Collector runtime configuration- 

```
* Collector Runtime Configuration now uses an enum to enable and disable features. For example, `networking.externalIps.enable = true` now becomes `networking.externalIps.enabled = ENABLED`. Valid values are `ENABLED` and `DISABLED`.
```

cc @JoukoVirtanen

This release contains the following changes:

* Scanner V4 now uses Red{nbsp}Hat VEX files instead of the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) map to provide vulnerability data for non-RPM content in official Red{nbsp}Hat images.

> * You can no longer set the `ROX_NODE_INDEX_CONTAINER_API` environment variable in the Compliance pod. The node scanner never used this variable because the node scanner never connected to the Red{nbsp}Hat Container Catalog.

Author: I updated the text

|DEP
|DEP
|DEP

|`/v1/nodecves/suppress` APIs^[5,6]^
|DEP
|DEP
|DEP

|`/v1/nodecves/unsuppress` APIs^[5,6]^
|DEP
|DEP
|DEP

|`/v1/summary/counts` endpoint
|DEP
|DEP
|DEP

|Vulnerability Management (1.0) menu item^[7]^
|DEP
|DEP
|DEP

|Vulnerability Report Creator permission
|DEP
|DEP
|DEP

|Scanner V4 support for openSUSE Leap 15.0 and 15.1
|GA
|DEP
|REM

|===

[.small]
--
1. API token authentication is deprecated. The corresponding cloud source integration now uses service accounts for authentication.

2. The Google Container Registry integration is deprecated in response to the deprecation of Container Registry. You can use the Artifact Registry as a registry replacement and Scanner V4 as a scanner replacement.
+
For more information, see link:https://cloud.google.com/artifact-registry/docs/transition/transition-from-gcr[Transition from Container Registry] (Google Cloud documentation).

3. Kernel support packages and driver download functionality are deprecated.

4. The `rhacs-collector-slim*` image is deprecated. `rhacs-collector*` image used to contain kernel modules and eBPF probes, but {product-title-short} no longer needs those items. 
+

> The `rhacs-collector*` and the `rhacs-collector-slim*` images are now functionally the same. The `rhacs-collector-slim*` image is planned to be removed in a future release.

Reviewer 6: The `rhacs-collector-slim*` images have been removed in 4.7 (they were deprecated in 4.5). Customers will be upgraded to regular `rhacs-collector` images in this release.

+
With this update, the system now specifically recognizes zombie processes and adjusts the message level to a less strict classification. However, the system can still trigger an error if the detection of zombie processes exceeds a certain threshold, helping to identify faulty workloads.

//ROX-25638
* Before this update, the Central logs were not rotated, which caused the log file for {product-title-short} to grow indefinitely and eventually take up the entire node memory. This issue occurred because `/var/log/stackrox` was mounted by using an `emptyDir` volume, which does not persist across pod restarts and has no built-in log rotation. 
+
With this update, logs are deleted and the `emptyDir` volume is recreated when you restart the Central pod. A log size limit has been introduced to prevent excessive memory usage and to ensure that the Central logs do not overload the node.

//ROX-27414 and ROX-27439
* Before this update, Central filtered the `storage.IndexReport` message, which represents the state of RPM packages on a {op-system-first} node, due to the missing timestamps. 
+

> This caused issues in {product-title-short} 4.6.0 and 4.6.1 where identical `IndexReport` messages sent at different times were treated as duplicates even though they could return different sets of vulnerabilities.

Reviewer 7: Limiting the blast radius of this issue: Affected were only the users (of 4.6.0 and 4.6.1) who decided to test the technical-preview feature of RHCOS Node Scanning with Scanner V4.

:FeatureName: Generation of SBOMs from the scanned container images
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

With {product-title-short} 4.7, you can now generate a Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) from the scanned container images. These SBOMs give you a detailed overview of all software components, dependencies, and libraries within your application.
{product-title-short} creates SBOMs of the Analyzed type and complies with the Software Package Data Exchange (SPDX) 2.3 specification.

For more information about the SBOMs of the Analyzed type, see
link:https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2023-04/sbom-types-document-508c.pdf[Types of SBOM Documents] (America's Cyber Defense Agency documentation).

////
For information about how to use {product-title-short} to generate SBOMs, see xref:../operating/manage-vulnerabilities/scanner-generate-sbom.adoc#scanner-generate-sbom[Generating SBOMs from scanned images].
////

[NOTE]
====
Generating SBOMs from images analyzed through secured clusters by using the delegated scanning feature is currently not supported. It is anticipated that an upcoming release will support this feature.
====

//ROX-17535

> [id="automatic-certificate-rotation-for-secured-clusters_{context}"]

Reviewer: Only CRS part is Tech Preview, see below.

In addition to the severity and Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) score, an EPSS probability score from 0%-100% is now displayed for detected Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs). 
You can use the EPSS score to better prioritize the remediation of CVE vulnerabilities and strengthen your security strategy.

//tech preview
//ROX-26330
[id="gain-visibility-into-the-external-ips-in-the-network-graph_{context}"]
=== Enhanced visibility into the external IPs in the network graph

:FeatureName: Visualizing external entities
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

With {product-title-short} 4.7, you can now get a better insight into the external IPs behind external entities in the network graph. 
This enhancement helps you identify the specific IP addresses that your deployments are communicating with and gives you better insight into the external interactions and potential risks.

For more information, see xref:../operating/visualizing-external-entities.adoc#visualizing-external-entities[Visualizing external entities].

//ROX-25007
[id="enhanced-options-for-the-roxctl-netpol-generate-command_{context}"]
=== Enhanced options for the roxctl netpol generate command

> In {product-title-short} 4.7, the `roxctl netpol generate` command automatically detects when DNS connections are required and generates them accordingly. If you do not specify a port, port `53` is selected automatically, but you can change this by using the `--dnsport` flag. You can now specify the port names not only as numbers, but also as text. For example, you can use `--dnsport dns`. 

Reviewer 8: Hi Agil, not sure where you find the original text to be unclear/unfit but this text to me, is still less clear than the original. The points I'm trying to make are 
1.  This flag was already supported. We only added the named port option
2. If you are an OpenShift customer you *should* (not *can*) change the port number

For more information about the SBOMs of the Analyzed type, see
link:https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2023-04/sbom-types-document-508c.pdf[Types of SBOM Documents] (America's Cyber Defense Agency documentation).

For more information about how to use {product-title-short} to generate SBOMs, see xref:../operating/manage-vulnerabilities/scanner-generate-sbom.adoc#scanner-generate-sbom[Generating SBOMs from scanned images].

[NOTE]
====
Generating SBOMs from images analyzed through secured clusters by using the delegated scanning feature is currently not supported. It is anticipated that an upcoming release will support this feature.
====

//ROX-17535
[id="automatic-certificate-rotation-for-secured-clusters_{context}"]
=== Automatic certificate rotation for secured clusters

{product-title-short} 4.7 introduces automatic certificate rotation for the secured cluster components, which ensures secure communication between Sensor, Admission Controller, and Collector within the cluster. Sensor also uses these certificates for a secure certificate-based architecture (mTLS) connection with Central.

> With this release, you can now use the Cluster Registration Secret (CRS) to bootstrap a secured cluster and register it with Central. Unlike previous methods, CRS separates the bootstrap credentials from the operational certificates so that the cluster continues to work even if the bootstrap credentials are revoked. You can generate the CRS by using the `roxctl` CLI commands and revoke it if required.

Reviewer 4: This section starts with cert rotation, then mentions CRS, then goes back to cert rotation. I think CRS should be mentioned separately, as it's a different feature.

Reviewer: If we need to break out the CRS into a different section, we can add a link to the docs. (Won't work until they're merged).

For more information about CRS, see xref:../../installing/installing_ocp/init-bundle-ocp.adoc#init-bundle-ocp[Generating and applying an init bundle or cluster registration secret for RHACS on Red Hat OpenShift] and xref:../../installing/installing_other/init-bundle-other.adoc#init-bundle-other[Generating and applying an init bundle or cluster registration secret for RHACS on other platforms].

> {product-title-short} 4.7 supports both the init bundle and CRS, but in a future release the init bundle will be deprecated in favor of CRS.

Reviewer: Add tech preview snippet for "cluster registration secrets".

For more information, see xref:../integration/integrate-with-image-registries.adoc#manual-configuration-image-registry-acr_integrate-with-image-registries[Manually configuring Microsoft Azure Container Registry].

[id="notable-technical-changes_{context}"]
== Notable technical changes

This release contains the following changes:

* Scanner V4 now uses Red{nbsp}Hat VEX files instead of the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) map to provide vulnerability data for non-RPM content in official Red{nbsp}Hat images.
* You can no longer set the `ROX_NODE_INDEX_CONTAINER_API` environment variable in the Compliance pod. The node scanner never used this variable because the node scanner never connected to the Red{nbsp}Hat Container Catalog.
+
To enable scanning of Scanner V4 nodes while scanning of Scanner V2 nodes continues in parallel, you must change the `ROX_NODE_INDEX_ENABLED` variable from a BooleanSetting to a feature flag so that it is accessible to the user interface (UI) through the Central API. Central with Scanner V4 automatically prefers Scanner V4 scans, while those with StackRox Scanner V2 continue to work without changes.

> * `stackrox.io` Content Delivery Network (CDN) has been moved from CloudFlare to Akamai. When configuring firewall rules, you must use the hostname instead of the IP addresses. If you previously allowed the IP ranges from `stackrox.io`, you must update these rules. 

Author: We always avoid using "recommends". Instead of "Red Hat recommends", we should direct the users to take the recommended action.

https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#recommend

//ROX-27119
[id="scan-the-container-images-in-the-github-container-registry_{context}"]
=== Scan the container images in the GitHub Container Registry

With {product-title-short} 4.7, you can integrate with the GitHub Container Registry (GHCR) to scan container images stored in `ghcr.io`. {product-title-short} now includes a default integration that supports both public and private GHCR instances to secure your containerized workloads.

For more information, see xref:../integration/integrate-with-image-registries.adoc#manual-configuration-image-registry-ghcr_integrate-with-image-registries[Manually configuring GitHub Container Registry].

//ROX-27011
[id="enhanced-visibility-for-the-openshift-component-cves_{context}"]
=== Enhanced visibility for the OpenShift Container Platform component CVEs

{product-title-short} 4.7 introduces improved visibility for the {ocp} component Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs). You can now view these CVEs separately from the *Platform Components* -> *User Workload CVEs* page to assess and manage security risks.

//ROX-26781
[id="machine-to-machine-authentication-by-using-microsoft-entra-id_{context}"]

> === Machine-to-Machine authentication by using Microsoft Entra ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Machine-to-machine authentication by using Microsoft Entra ID
```

You can now exchange ID tokens issued to your application's service principals for {product-title-short} Central access tokens, which you can then use to authenticate {product-title-short} APIs.

For more information, see xref:../operating/manage-user-access/configure-short-lived-access.adoc#configure-short-lived-access[Configuring short-lived access].

//ROX-26546
[id="view-the-violation-status-directly-on-the-violations-page_{context}"]
=== View the violation status directly on the Violations page

With {product-title-short} 4.7, you can now see the status of a violation directly on the *Violations* page, and determine if the violation has been resolved. This enhances automation, as the links to the alerts now show the full context when they are accessed.

//ROX-26335
[id="prioritize-cves-with-the-epss-integration_{context}"]
=== Prioritize CVEs with the EPSS integration

{product-title-short} 4.7 introduces integration with the Exploit Prediction Scoring System (EPSS), a data-driven model that estimates the likelihood of a software vulnerability being exploited. 

> In addition to the severity and Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) score, an EPSS probability score from 0%-100% is now displayed for each detected Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the severity and Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) score, an EPSS probability score from 0%-100% is now displayed for detected Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs). 
```

> You can use the EPSS score to better prioritize the remediation of CVE vulnerabilities and strengthen your security strategy.

Reviewer: @sbadve-RH and @pedrottimark : should we add a link to Aaron's KCS/FAQ here?

Reviewer: Let's just add a link to the updated doc section (PR not merged yet but link should work OK):

For more information, see xref:../operating/manage-vulnerabilities/vulnerability-management.adoc#vulnerability-management-prioritizing_acs-operating-manage-vulnerabilities.

//ROX-26330
[id="gain-visibility-into-the-external-ips-in-the-network-graph_{context}"]
=== Enhanced visibility into the external IPs in the network graph

With {product-title-short} 4.7, you can now get a better insight into the external IPs behind external entities in the network graph. 
This enhancement helps you identify the specific IP addresses your deployments are communicating with and gives you better insight into the external interactions and potential risks.

> This feature was a technology preview in {product-title-short} 4.6.0 and is now generally available in {product-title-short} 4.7.0.

Reviewer 9: The external IPs feature is not GA in 4.7. cc @Stringy @ovalenti

Reviewer: Yes, still TP in the docs also.

[id="protect-and-run-secured-clusters-on-red-openshift-on-ibm-cloud_{context}"]
=== Protect and run secured clusters on Red{nbsp}OpenShift on IBM Cloud

In {product-title-short} 4.7, you can now protect {product-roibm} and run secured clusters on {product-roibm}.

//ROX-13542
[id="use-the-short-lived-oidc-credentials-from-microsoft-azure_{context}"]
=== Use the short-lived OIDC credentials from Microsoft Azure

With {product-title-short} 4.7, you can now use short-lived OpenID Connect (OIDC) credentials. The Microsoft Azure Identity Provider provides these credentials, and you can use these credentials to access the services in Microsoft Azure, such as the Azure Container Registry and Azure Sentinel.

This feature builds on the {product-title-short} 4.4 release, which introduced the ability to use short-lived OIDC credentials from Amazon Web Services (AWS) and Google Cloud Platform (GCP) cloud providers to authenticate to the services hosted on these platforms.

For more information, see xref:../integration/integrate-with-image-registries.adoc#manual-configuration-image-registry-acr_integrate-with-image-registries[Manually configuring Microsoft Azure Container Registry].

> [id="certifications_{context}"]

Reviewer: I think these were mentioned in 4.6 so not sure why we are mentioning again? Maybe accidentally left in while cutting and pasting? https://docs.openshift.com/acs/4.6/release_notes/46-release-notes.html#certifications_release-notes-46

== Certifications

{product-title-managed} is certified according to the following global standards for security, compliance, and data protection:

* ISO/IEC 27001:2022
* ISO/IEC 27017:2015
* ISO/IEC 27018:2019
* PCI DSS 4.0
* SOC 2 Type 2
* SOC 2 Type 3

[id="notable-technical-changes_{context}"]
== Notable technical changes

This release contains the following changes:

* Scanner V4 now uses Red{nbsp}Hat VEX files instead of the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) map to provide vulnerability data for non-RPM content in official Red{nbsp}Hat images.
* You can no longer set the `ROX_NODE_INDEX_CONTAINER_API` environment variable in the Compliance pod. The node scanner never used this variable because the node scanner never connected to the Red{nbsp}Hat Container Catalog.
+

> To enable scanning of Scanner V4 nodes while scanning of Scanner V2 nodes continues in parallel, you must change the `ROX_NODE_INDEX_ENABLED` variable from a BooleanSetting to a feature flag so that it is accessible to the user interface (UI) through the Central API. Central with Scanner V4 automatically prefers Scanner V4 scans, while those with StackRox Scanner V2 continue to work without changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable scanning of Scanner V4 nodes while scanning of Scanner V2 nodes continues in parallel, you must change the `ROX_NODE_INDEX_ENABLED` variable from a Boolean setting to a feature flag so that it is accessible to the {product-title-short} portal through the Central API. Central with Scanner V4 automatically prefers Scanner V4 scans, while those with StackRox Scanner V2 continue to work without changes.
```
I am not sure that I understand this. The user would not be changing anything from a "Boolean setting" to a "feature flag". This looks like an internal change that doesn't need to be advertised to users - maybe @RTann can confirm? Or someone else?

Reviewer: I asked in Slack about this one. https://redhat-internal.slack.com/archives/C033Z8KMZAM/p1740576956036109

Reviewer 7: This paragraph is really convoluted. Let me straight out the facts.

1. Central in version 4.7 will use Scanner V4 for Node scanning feature if Scanner V4 is installed.
2. All secured clusters in version 4.7 will send node-scan messages for use with Scanner V4.
3. If selected secured clusters still run version 4.6, then the default node-scanning for those clusters will involve the Stackrox Scanner. To change that, one must set `ROX_NODE_INDEX_ENABLED` to `true` for Collector and Sensor - see page with detailed instructions: https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_advanced_cluster_security_for_kubernetes/4.7/html/operating/managing-vulnerabilities#rhcos-enable-node-scan-scannerv4_scan-rhcos-node-host

Those are the most important facts for 4.7. 

Now some context info:

- Stackrox Scanner (V2) and Scanner V4 may run in parallel. 
- Node scanning uses:
   - in 4.6: the Stackrox Scanner (Scanner V4 can be enabled manually as tech-preview - [instructions](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_advanced_cluster_security_for_kubernetes/4.7/html/operating/managing-vulnerabilities#rhcos-enable-node-scan-scannerv4_scan-rhcos-node-host))
   - in 4.7: Scanner V4 - this is a GA feature, the only requirement is that the Scanner V4 must be installed. (Scanner V4 can be DISABLED manually for the node scanning feature - [instructions](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_advanced_cluster_security_for_kubernetes/4.7/html/operating/managing-vulnerabilities#rhcos-restore-node-scan-stackrox-scanner_scan-rhcos-node-host))

➡️  Now what to do with the paragraph: 

1. Delete - all defaults are set, so there is no need to mention this. Alternatively...
2. ...we can hint that the Stackrox Scanner (V2) and Scanner V4 may be enabled or disabled manually _for the node scanning feature_ (image scanning won't be affected by this setting) by following the instructions from https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_advanced_cluster_security_for_kubernetes/4.7/html/operating/managing-vulnerabilities

> * `stackRox.io` Content Delivery Network (CDN) has been moved from CloudFlare to Akamai. When configuring firewall rules, you must use the hostname instead of the IP addresses. If you previously allowed the IP ranges from `stackrox.io`, you must update these rules. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `stackrox.io` Content Delivery Network (CDN) has been moved from CloudFlare to Akamai. When configuring firewall rules, you must use the hostname instead of the IP addresses. If you previously allowed the IP ranges from `stackrox.io`, you must update these rules. 
```

3. Kernel support packages and driver download functionality are deprecated.

4. The `rhacs-collector-slim*` image is deprecated and has been removed in {product-title-short} 4.7.0. `rhacs-collector*` image used to contain kernel modules and eBPF probes, but {product-title-short} no longer needs those items. 
The `rhacs-collector*` and the `rhacs-collector-slim*` images are now functionally the same. 

5. A feature flag controls this API object, and you can enable or disable this API object by using the `ROX_VULN_MGMT_LEGACY_SNOOZE` environment variable.

6. The format for specifying duration in JSON requests to `v1/nodecves/suppress`, `v1/clustercves/suppress`, and `v1/imagecves/suppress` has been changed to the ProtoJSON format. 
Only a numeric value representing seconds with optional fractional seconds for nanosecond precision and followed by the `s` suffix is supported. 
+
For example, `0.300s`, `-5400s`, or `9900s`. The previously valid time units of `ns`, `us`, `µs`, `ms`, `m`, and `h` are no longer supported.

> 7. The *Vulnerability Management* -> *Dashboard* view is deprecated and is planned to be removed in a future release. You can use the *Workload CVEs*, *Exception Management*, *Platform CVEs*, and *Node CVEs* views as alternatives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. The *Vulnerability Management* -> *Dashboard* view is deprecated and is planned to be removed in a future release. You can use the *User workload vulnerabilities*, *Exception management*, *Platform vulnerabilities*, and *Node CVEs* views as alternatives.
```

--

[id="removed-features_{context}"]
=== Removed features

> The following section provides information about the removed features:

Reviewer: The format for explanations is now a footnote in the table and a numbered item below the table, to try to make correlating the table and the additional information easier to locate, so this would be # 8, and then add the 8 footnote to the item in the table?

* Scanner V4 support for openSUSE Leap 15.0 and 15.1 has been removed.

[id="bug-fixes_{context}"]
== Bug fixes in version 4.7.0

*Release date*: 3 March 2025

//ROX-27588

> * Before this update, the queries did not take into account the new run state changes in downloadable reports, as the reports remained in `DOWNLOAD` state even after downloading. This issue occurred because the backend introduced a new `DELIVERED` state when you download the reports through the user interface (UI). With this update, the queries for recognizing the transition from `DOWNLOAD` to `DELIVERED` have been updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the queries did not take into account the new run state changes in downloadable reports, as the reports remained in `DOWNLOAD` state even after downloading. This issue occurred because the backend introduced a new `DELIVERED` state when you download the reports through the user interface (UI). With this update, the queries for recognizing the transition from `DOWNLOAD` to `DELIVERED` have been updated.
```
I am not sure that users need to know why the error occurred, just that it was fixed. So I would omit the first part and just say something like "Before this update, reports remained in the `DOWNLOAD` state even after they were downloaded. This issue is now fixed."

//ROX-26763
* Before this update, the logs repeatedly displayed the following error message:
+
[source,text]
----
 [Throttled] Could not determine network namespace: No such file or directory
----
+

> This issue occurred because the scraper that reads the process details in `procfs` reported errors when it encountered zombie processes, even though this was not necessarily a true error. Workloads that frequently generated zombie processes were more likely to trigger this message. 

Reviewer: Way TMI for a user. My suggestion:
```suggestion
This issue occurred when the system reported errors when encountering zombie processes. 
```

+
With this update, the system now specifically recognizes zombie processes and adjusts the message level to a less strict classification. However, the system can still trigger an error if the detection of zombie processes exceeds a certain threshold, helping to identify faulty workloads.

//ROX-25638
* Before this update, the Central logs were not rotated, which caused the log file for {product-title-short} to grow indefinitely and eventually take up the entire node memory. This issue occurred because `/var/log/stackrox` was mounted by using an `emptyDir` volume, which does not persist across pod restarts and has no built-in log rotation. 
+
With this update, logs are deleted and the `emptyDir` volume is recreated when you restart the Central pod. A log size limit has been introduced to prevent excessive memory usage and to ensure that the Central logs do not overload the node.

//ROX-27414 and ROX-27439
* Before this update, Central might have filtered out selected `storage.IndexReport` messages representing the state of the RPM packages on a {op-system-first} node due to missing timestamps.
+

> This caused issues in {product-title-short} 4.6.0 and 4.6.1 when testing the technical preview feature of {op-system} node scanning with Scanner V4, as identical IndexReport messages sent at different times are treated as duplicates, even though they might return different sets of vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This caused issues in {product-title-short} 4.6.0 and 4.6.1 when testing the technical preview feature of {op-system} node scanning with Scanner V4.
```

With this update, the filter logic in Central has been adjusted to ensure that `IndexReport` messages are processed correctly over time.

//ROX-27829

> * Before to this update, the {product-title-short} UI incorrectly validated Slack webhook URLs and blocked the Mattermost integration due to strict regex rules. With this update, the regex check has been removed to allow for more flexible URL formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the {product-title-short} UI incorrectly validated Slack webhook URLs and blocked the Mattermost integration due to strict regex rules. With this update, the regex check has been removed to allow for more flexible URL formats.
```
